Here's a story we all know too well.
You've just drifted off to sleep only to be woken up by your
phone screaming and lighting up the room.
You wipe the sleep from your eyes as you try to read
your phone and you see website is down.
You grumble as you get up out of bed and go find your
laptop and begin investigating the alert.
Since we set up our alarm at CloudFront,
we know the issue somehow involves the service.
We open up AWS and head to the CloudFront console.
We click on Alarms and see that red active alarm.
Next, we look at the error rate dashboard in CloudWatch,
and after clicking on View in CloudWatch,
we see the spike in 500 errors.
And from there, we should check what error we get when we visit the site,
504 gateway timeout.
Here is where it's important to understand why CloudFront
typically returns a particular error code.
An easy way to remember where an issue might be is if it's a 500 error,
the issue lies with CloudFront not being able to communicate with your origin.
If it's a 400 error,
you'll see these when your origin is communicating
with CloudFront to pass on an error.
Since this is a 504-gateway timeout,
which means for some reason CloudFront can't reach our origin,
it's timing out while attempting to connect to our origin to pull the
latest content and serve it from the edge caches.
We should be able to cross-check this with our access logs.
If we hop into Athena and pull our CloudFront access logs,
we should be able to run a limited search to detect if any
504s were logged and what times they were at.
Well, there you have it.
Our access logs are showing the 504s and the timestamps are matching
what we have seen in our monitoring dashboards.
So the issue lies with our origin not allowing CloudFront to talk to it.
Now to bring this back to the point, after a short investigation,
we see that a typo in our configuration management allowed our
security gateway to block port 443 on the ALB.
A quick fix of the security group and we are able to reach our origin again,
504s have stopped and our alert has returned to an OK status.
Check the website again and we have our fully
rendered website with a 200-status code.
I hope this quick example of how to investigate an issue has helped bring
together the module regarding how we enable logging,
as well as how we set up monitoring and alerting, and how we can really help shave time off of the troubleshooting process.